welcome to part 2 of the cookery course
but before we start part 2 I would like
to thank you all for being so
enthusiastic about part 1 and thanks for
all the nice letters you sent me
I hope we're all going to enjoy part 2
just as much well today's program is all
about making cakes and although we
shouldn't be eating too many cakes
because they're far too fattening it's
nice to have a home bake to cake once in
a while and when you are going to have a
cake it's much better than buying a sort
of factory made synthetic tasting one
first of all we're going to just have a
look at a few cakes we've got a very
popular cake here this is a Dundee cake
I'm going to take a bit piece out and
show you and point out the texture which
is quite crumbly a lot of people think a
Dundee cake should be moist and sticky
but really it should be more crumbly
like that that's got a beautiful flavour
here I've got a cake that looks quite
ordinary but don't be deceived this nice
sugary topping here is very good and
inside it's marmalade this is a
marmalade cake and although it looks as
I said pretty ordinary it's got the most
marvellous sort of chunky fresh
marmalade flavor now down here I've got
something very popular that's sticky
Parkin and the thing well the rule you
have to remember if you're making Parkin
if you can bear to you've got to leave
it in the tin for about two weeks
because longer you leave it the more
sticky and chewy it gets well probably
people make more sponges than anything
else so we've got a couple of sponges
here this is a lemon curd layer cake
with four layers of sponge and this one
here is a coffee and walnut cake and it
has a coffee cream mousseline covering
which for those of you like me who don't
like sweet butter cream is very good
it's a nice alternative well there are
lots more cakes and also different sorts
of fillings contained in the book that
goes with the course part two first of
all though we're going to actually make
a sponge cake but before we do just for
beginners I'd like to tell you a little
bit about the different sorts of sponges
and I've got four samples here all
arranged into a production-line
because they are different and I'd like
you to know the difference the first one
here is a Victoria sponge
that's made by the creaming method it's
quite difficult to master that one but
it's got a very good flavor that's a
traditional one next door this is the
modern one which is the all-in-one
sponge cake and that's made by throwing
everything into the bowl and anybody
from 9 to 90 can make that one because
we're using more whole wheat flour now
in all our cooking there's a sponge done
by the only one method with whole wheat
flour and you can see it's got a more
open texture but it's just as delicious
and has that nice sort of nutty
whole-wheat flavor here we've got a
fatness sponge this one is very very
sort of bouncy and spongy and very light
but that one needs to be eaten on the
day it's made it should be nice and
fresh that one because it dries quite
quickly well out of those I think my
favorite is the all-in-one and those of
you who know me by now will know that
that's because it's the easiest and I
really don't believe in working too hard
in the kitchen